--- 
layout: default
title: What the VCs feel about Web2.0
tags: []

type: regular

---
<div><p>The following is an extract from an <a href="http://www.forbes.com/home/entrepreneurs/2006/05/10/entrepreneurs-venturecapital-yahoo-cx_eb_0511venture.html">interview published</a> in Forbes :-
</p><p><strong>So how is Web 2.0 different from the first Internet boom?</strong> </p><p><strong>Slavet</strong>: With the <i><strong>proliferation of "open source" software</strong></i> and <i><strong>viral marketing programs</strong></i>, Internet companies can reach millions of users with less money than before. [Open-source software allows customers to tweak a software program's underlying code, so technology companies are essentially getting programmers for free.] Also, most of today's business plans are from people who have a lot of relevant experience. That didn't exist the last time around.</p><p><strong>Liew</strong>: The risk is lower this time. Back then, you needed to build and run your own data center, hire an engineering team to build your site, then pay someone like AOL to get distribution. Today, you have <i><strong>performance-based advertising</strong></i>, so you don't have to pay upfront for distribution; you can send your <i><strong>development offshore</strong></i>; and you can <i><strong>outsource your data center</strong></i>. Spending less on advertising also lets you see whether your company is doing well because it is filling a consumer need, or whether it is just dong well because you are spending a bundle on marketing. </p><p><strong>Jeff, you've been doing this for a few years already. How has your experience as both an Internet entrepreneur and a venture capitalist shaped your current investment thesis?</strong></p><p><strong>Jeffrey Crowe</strong>: Web sites come and go in terms of popularity. Consumers flock to different Web sites, and many sites can be copied. <i>I'm looking for companies with <strong>deep technology and intellectual property that can play across multiple sites</strong>. One example is a portfolio company of ours, Telcontar. Its software powers Yahoo! and Google maps.</i></p><p><strong>What worries you about Web 2.0?</strong> </p><p><strong>Crowe</strong>: There is a raft of direct-to-consumer Web sites that are destined to be small, $20 million acquisitions. <strong><i>Those outcomes might be good for a self-funded entrepreneur, but not for a VC</i></strong>. In each category of user-generated content, there is only going to be one winner. There will be one photo-sharing site or one ratings site. It's really hard to get critical mass when so many companies are doing the same thing.</p><p><strong><strong><strong>technorati tags: <a href="http://technorati.com/tag/web2.0" rel="tag">web2.0</a>, <a href="http://technorati.com/tag/interview" rel="tag">interview</a>, <a href="http://technorati.com/tag/vc" rel="tag">vc</a></strong></strong></strong></p></div>
