--- 
layout: default
title: Feedback loops in software development
tags: []

type: regular

---

<blockquote> <ul>

<li>Because our customer doesn't know what he wants, he finds out from the people that want the system. He sometimes gets this wrong.  <li>Because I don't know what to code, I find out from our customer. I sometimes get this wrong.  <li>Because I make mistakes while coding, I work with an IDE. My IDE corrects me when I'm wrong.  <li>Because I make mistakes while thinking, I work with a pair. My pair corrects me when I'm wrong.  <li>Because my pair is human and also makes mistakes, we write unit tests. Our unit tests correct us when we're wrong.  <li>Because we have a team who are also coding, we integrate with their code. Our code won't compile if we're wrong.  <li>Because our team makes mistakes, we write acceptance tests that exercise the whole system. Our acceptance tests will fail if we're wrong.  <li>Because we make mistakes writing acceptance tests, we get QA to help us. QA will tell us if we're wrong.  <li>Because we forget to run the acceptance tests, we get Cruise Control to run them for us. Cruise Control will tell us if we're wrong.  <li>Because we forget to maintain the acceptance tests, we get QA to check that the system still works. QA will tell us if it's wrong.  <li>Because we only made it work on Henry's laptop, we deploy the system to a realistic environment. It won't work if the deployment is wrong.  <li>Because we sometimes misunderstand our customer, we showcase the system. Our customer will tell us if we're wrong.  <li>Because our customer sometimes misunderstands the people that want the system, we put the system in production. The people who want it tell us if we're wrong.  <li>Because it costs money to get it wrong, we do all these things as often as we can. That way we are only ever a little bit wrong.</li></ul></blockquote> <p>Source: <a href="http://sirenian.livejournal.com/36847.html">sirenian: Feedback loops</a> </p> <p>by&nbsp;Elizabeth Keogh who works at ThoughtWorks.</p> <div class="wlWriterSmartContent" id="0767317B-992E-4b12-91E0-4F059A8CECA8:0f504411-3228-4c84-bf01-0117632fd0fa" contenteditable="false" style="padding-right: 0px; display: inline; padding-left: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; margin: 0px; padding-top: 0px">Technorati tags: <a href="http://technorati.com/tags/sdlc" rel="tag">sdlc</a>, <a href="http://technorati.com/tags/testing" rel="tag">testing</a>, <a href="http://technorati.com/tags/software" rel="tag">software</a>, <a href="http://technorati.com/tags/development" rel="tag">development</a>, <a href="http://technorati.com/tags/thoughtworks" rel="tag">thoughtworks</a></div>
